feat(hauler): air gap installation with Hauler. (#652)
kubewarden/docs: docs/howtos/airgap/03-hauler.md

---
sidebar_label: Hauler installation
title: Air gap installation with Hauler
description: Air gap installation for Kubewarden using Hauler
keywords: [kubewarden, kubernetes, air gap installation, hauler]
doc-persona: [kubewarden-operator, kubewarden-integrator]
doc-type: [howto]
doc-topic: [operator-manual, air gap, installation, hauler]
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.kubewarden.io/howtos/airgap/hauler-sync"/>
</head>

This guide shows you how to install Kubewarden in air-gapped environments using
[Hauler](https://docs.hauler.dev/docs/intro). Hauler is a tool that helps
users run workloads in air-gapped environments. It moves the required 
resources for apps into those air-gapped environments.

Kubewarden uses Hauler capabilities by providing a manifest
file with all the required resources to run Kubewarden in a private environment. This
documentation describes how you can use it. Refer to the
Hauler documentation to learn more about it.

The basic workflow using the Hauler manifest is:

- to get it from a Kubewarden release page
- load all the resources required to run Kubewarden into a local store

> - export them to a file

Reviewer: I suppose this means exporting the local store into a file, and not the resources?

-  move the file into the private environment
- load the resources into Hauler running inside the private environment

> - copy everything into a registry to be used in the installation process in your air-gapped environment

Author: Yes. Everything (helm charts, policies modules and container image) will be copied into some registry used internally in the private environment.

copy them into your private registry.

```shell
hauler store copy registry://localhost:5000
```

You can also run Hauler to start a registry with all the resources from the
store:

```shell
hauler store server registry
```

This will start a registry at the `localhost:5000` address. From this point, you
can use other commands like Skopeo to copy all the container images, policy modules
and Helm charts used by Kubewarden into your private registry.

## Install Kubewarden

Now that your private registry has everything required, you can install
Kubewarden. The difference from a standard Kubewarden installation is that
you need to change the registry in the container images and policies to be the
private registry. Additionally, the Helm chart must be installed from OCI artifacts.

Install the Kubewarden stack:

```shell
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-crds \
    oci://<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/hauler/kubewarden-crds
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller \
    --set "global.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>" \
    oci://<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/hauler/kubewarden-controller
```

:::caution

> To use the Policy Reported sub-chart available in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the PolicyReporter sub-chart available in the
```

`kubewarden-controller` chart you need to define other values specific for the
sub-chart in an air-gapped environment.
See an example below:

```shell
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller oci://<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/hauler/kubewarden-controller \
    --set global.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT> \
    --set auditScanner.policyReporter=true \
    --set policy-reporter.image.registry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT> \
    --set policy-reporter.image.repository=kyverno/policy-reporter \
    --set policy-reporter.ui.image.registry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT> \
    --set policy-reporter.ui.image.repository=kyverno/policy-reporter-ui
```

> It's necessary to define `auditScanner.policyReporter` and four other values to enable the sub-chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's necessary to define `auditScanner.policyReporter` and four other values to enable the sub-chart and
```

doc-persona: [kubewarden-operator, kubewarden-integrator]
doc-type: [howto]
doc-topic: [operator-manual, air gap, installation, hauler]
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.kubewarden.io/howtos/airgap/hauler-sync"/>
</head>

This guide shows you how to install Kubewarden in air-gapped environments using
[Hauler](https://docs.hauler.dev/docs/intro). Hauler is a tool that helps users
run workloads in air-gapped environments. It moves the required resources for
apps into those air-gapped environments.

Kubewarden uses Hauler capabilities by providing a manifest file with all the
required resources to run Kubewarden in a private environment. This
documentation describes how you can use it. Refer to the Hauler documentation
to learn more about it.

The basic workflow using the Hauler manifest is:

1. Get it from a Kubewarden release page
2. Load all the resources required to run Kubewarden into a local store
3. Export them into a file
4. Move the file into the private environment
5. Load the resources into Hauler running inside the private environment
6. Copy everything into a registry, to be used in the installation process, in
   your air-gapped environment

> ## Download Hauler manifest from Helm chart release page

Reviewer: Just realized, can we make the sections numbered as the numbered list?

Author: I'm not sure. The section are more a logic separation of the text. The goal was not follow the numbered list. Can we keep it as it is now?
